One day, a girl called Gemma was walking home from school with her friends. It was a very windy day in autumn. Gemma and her friends walked through piles of leaves. The leaves made a lovely sound. But then the wind got stronger. The wind pushed Gemma and her friends, and they could only walk slowly and they felt cold. Gemma’s friends decided to run home where it was warm, but Gemma liked the wind, so she did not run.

Gemma liked the wind because it played with her hair. And everything looked different in the wind. The trees danced. The leaves flew through the sky like birds. Sometimes, the wind was very strong and Gemma thought she might fly as well!

Gemma was almost home, but then she saw something in a pile of leaves. At first, she thought it was a very red leaf. But then she saw that it was square, and she had never seen a square leaf before. She pushed away the leaves and saw the square thing was a red book.

Strange, thought Gemma. Why would someone leave a book in a pile of leaves? It hadn’t been there long, because it wasn’t wet. Someone had wrapped the book in leaves. Maybe they wanted to keep it dry. But it would get wet soon if someone didn’t take it. So Gemma picked up the book and put it in her bag. Maybe it belonged to someone at school and she could give it back.

That night, there was a big storm. The storm pushed down trees and pulled roofs off houses. Some of the trees fell on the roads and the railways. It was too hard for people to travel the next day, so there was no school.

Gemma sat at home bored. Her parents had to work, so they couldn’t talk to her, and her brother’s school was close to their house, so he had walked to school. Gemma was alone and had nothing to do.

So she opened the red book. She thought it might be an interesting book with lots of pictures, but she saw it was a long book with lots of words. Still, she had nothing better to do, so she started reading.

The story went like this:

Once, there was a little boy called Nai who lived on a boat. He travelled with his father, who sold treasure from the boat.

That was nice, Gemma thought. She liked stories with treasure.

She kept reading.

Nai’s father found his treasure in the sea. He dived into the deep blue water and found all kinds of treasures: jewellery, old furniture, money… He cleaned them and sold them in the cities they visited, and he told people that the treasures were magic.

Gemma closed her eyes and sighed. She wanted to live on a boat, too. She was sure she would find strange, exciting treasures. Not just red books.

She kept reading.

One day, Nai’s father dived into the sea and brought back a red book. It was wrapped in plastic, so it didn’t get wet.

Hey, that’s strange, thought Gemma. What was it her teacher had said? ‘Fact is stranger than fiction’ – it meant that real things – facts – were stranger than stories – fiction. And it was true. She had found a red book wrapped in leaves, and there was a story in the book about a man who had found a red book wrapped in plastic. That was very strange.

She kept reading.

Nai didn’t know how to read, because he had grown up on a boat, but he really wanted to know what was in the red book. It had to be a very special treasure, because you had to learn to read to understand it. Nai’s father didn’t care about the book and wanted to sell it, but the boy cried and told his father he really wanted to learn to read, so he could read the book.

Nai’s father said, ‘Fine. It probably won’t sell for much, anyway. Who wants books?’ and he dived into the water to find more treasure.

For years, Nai looked at the book every night. He touched the words, tried to understand them. But he couldn’t teach himself to read. Sometimes, when they were in a city, he asked other children to read the words to him. He didn’t know if they were correct or not, but he remembered which words were which, and at night, he said the words to himself.

Nai knew what most of the words meant: ‘leaf’ and ‘wind’. But there were also words he didn’t know, like ‘Gemma’.

‘You alright, honey?’

Gemma jumped off her chair. It was her mother.

‘I brought you a cup of tea,’ said Gemma’s mother. ‘What are you reading?’

‘Oh, just a book I got from the school library,’ said Gemma.

‘Is it scary? You jumped when I came in.’

Gemma laughed and closed the book. ‘A bit.’

‘Well, you keep on reading. It’s great to see you’re interested in books.’

Gemma’s mother left, and Gemma kept reading, forgetting about her cup of tea.

When Nai grew older, he saw that all the other children knew how to read. He asked if he could stay in a city for a while and learn to read. But his father always said no.

‘I need you, Nai. I’m growing old, and soon I won’t be able to dive myself.’

But Nai didn’t want to dive for treasures until he was old. He found the treasures so boring now, because he saw all the interesting things that people in the cities could do.

So one night, Nai ran away. He wrapped the red book in its plastic and ran away into one of the cities.

For months, Nai tried to learn to read. But living in the city was much harder than he thought. He was big now, and adults didn’t like him. Nobody wanted to take him inside when it rained, and he had no treasures to sell for food. And when he told people he wanted to learn to read, they looked at him and laughed.

But Nai never lost the book. Sometimes, people asked to buy the book from him. But he wouldn’t sell it. The red book was more important than food. When it rained, he wrapped the book in plastic. He could get wet, but the book had to stay dry.

One day, Nai met an old woman who had bought an old library.

‘This place is full of treasures,’ she said. ‘Beautiful old books. But they’re old and wet and they need help. Will you work here and help me look after these books?’

‘Of course!’ said Nai.

He couldn’t read, but he wanted to work with books. And he worked hard. He moved the books and cleaned the library. When the books were dry, he put them on the shelves. The old woman said that Nai did a good job, and she paid him well. She was interested in his red book, but she never asked to see it.

When the old woman learned that Nai couldn’t read, she said, ‘I’m going to teach you. I don’t care how long it takes. Everyone should be able to read.’

And so, morning and night, the old woman sat with Nai and taught him to read. At first, they were only simple stories for children. But he learned quickly, and soon he was reading beautiful stories for adults.

They really were treasures. There were so many beautiful stories in the world, so many lives that Nai didn’t know about before. Sometimes, he read stories that were like his life, and sometimes he read stories that were completely different to his life.

But Nai was sad. ‘I couldn’t read for so many years,’ he said. ‘There are so many books I want to read, but I’ll never have the time.’

‘There is always time,’ said the old woman. ‘And every time someone reads a story, it’s new. You read the words in the book but you draw a picture in your head. So you have drawn pictures that no other people could draw.’

Nai didn’t agree with her, but he said nothing. This woman had given him everything.

When Nai was ready, he opened the red book.

‘Gemma!’

Dad was calling from upstairs. Gemma didn’t listen. She had to finish this story. She had to know what happened.

The story went like this:

‘One day, a girl called Gemma was walking home from school with her friends. It was a very windy day in autumn. Gemma and her friends walked through piles of leaves. The leaves made a lovely sound. But then the wind got stronger…’

Gemma gasped. The story was telling exactly what had happened to her yesterday!

‘Gemma!’ called Dad more loudly. ‘I need your help! Come up here.’

Gemma didn’t hear him. She kept reading, moving quickly. The story talked about finding the red book in the pile of leaves, bringing it home, and…

‘So Gemma opened the red book. She thought it might be an interesting book with lots of pictures, but she saw it was a long book with lots of words. But she had nothing better to do, so she started reading.

‘The story went like this…’

Nai yawned. What time was it? He had been reading for hours, not moving. The story was quite scary, and he always had to finish scary stories. If he didn’t finish the story, he couldn’t sleep.

But he had finished now. He closed the red book, got up and went upstairs.

‘Sorry, Dad. What did you want help with?’

‘The computer,’ said Dad. ‘But don’t worry, I did it myself. Honestly, you really don’t like helping your father, do you?’

‘Sorry,’ said Nai. ‘I was reading.’

‘I know,’ said Dad. ‘You’re always reading.’

‘I’m going to bed now. Do you think school will be open tomorrow?’

‘Oh, I don’t think so. That storm was so bad.’

‘Aww!’

Dad laughed. ‘Most children don’t want to go to school, you know.’

‘I know, but I want to get some books from the school library.’

‘Well, we can walk to the town library if you want. It’s good to do some exercise. Actually, we could go swimming if you want.’

‘Boring! I hate swimming.’

Nai went to bed. He lay down and thought about the book he’d read. It was about a girl called Gemma, who lived in a library with an old woman. Gemma had worked in the library for years, but she still didn’t know how to read. She hated all the books, and wanted to run away and dive into the sea.

What a scary idea! If Nai couldn’t read, his life would be terrible. So he fell asleep very happy, knowing that, in this world, he could read all the books he wanted.








Once, there was a woman. She lived with her husband in a small house with a big garden. While her husband looked after the children, the woman looked after her garden. He cooked for the children, she watered the flowers. He taught the children to read, she sang songs to her plants. He put the children to bed, she sat with her vegetables until the sun went down.

Everyone called her ‘the mother of plants’, and there was one plant that was her favourite child: a turnip.

The woman had grown the turnip for years. At first, it was small and weak, but she watered it and told it stories, and over the years, it got bigger and bigger. Finally, the turnip was giant!

One day, the woman told the turnip her last story, and she knew that it could not grow any more. She had loved her child, and now it was time for the turnip to leave the ground and become food.

So the mother came inside and said, ‘Husband, it is time to pull out the turnip.’

The children were playing and didn’t listen to her, but the father said, ‘Ah, now this will be interesting!’

He followed her outside and watched as she pulled on the turnip. Mother pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

‘Well, that’s a problem,’ said the mother. ‘Husband, help me.’

So the father stood behind her. The father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother and Father pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

‘Oh, my big boy!’ said the mother. ‘He is a giant who won’t leave the ground.’

‘I have a friend who can help,’ said the father, and he went and got his friend, the farmer.

The farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father and farmer pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

‘Well, I’ve never seen a turnip so giant!’ said the farmer. ‘But I think my animal can help.’

So the farmer got his llama.

‘Why do you have a llama?’ asked the father, but there was no time to think about that. There was a turnip that needed to leave the ground!

The llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer and llama pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

Now the children inside had heard what was happening, and they stopped playing. The brother said, ‘You’re all too weak! Let me help!’

The brother pulled on the llama and the llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer, llama and Brother pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

The sister said, ‘You’re doing it wrong! Let me help!’

The sister pulled on the brother and the brother pulled on the llama and the llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer, llama, Brother and Sister pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

Now, all this pulling made a lot of noise, and there was a snake charmer who was travelling near the house and heard it. The snake charmer went to them and said, ‘I am a snake charmer, and if I can charm a snake out of a pot, I’m sure I can charm a turnip out of the ground!’

The snake charmer pulled on the sister and the sister pulled on the brother and the brother pulled on the llama and the llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer, llama, Brother, Sister, snake charmer pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

The children had a nanny, who had been sleeping while they played. But she heard the snake charmer’s snake hissing and woke up. The nanny was afraid of snakes, but what she really hated was wasting food. If the children wasted any food, she got very angry. So when she saw that they couldn’t get the turnip out of the ground, she ran to help them.

‘We can’t waste that turnip!’ she said.

The nanny pulled on the snake charmer and the snake charmer pulled on the sister and the sister pulled on the brother and the brother pulled on the llama and the llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer, llama, Brother, Sister, snake charmer and Nanny pulled and pulled, but the turnip didn’t move!

Now they were all very tired and annoyed. All the mother wanted was to have her turnip!

At that moment, the children’s granny came to the house. She was just going for her daily walk, and saw all of them standing by the turnip.

‘Oh! You’re trying to pull that turnip out of the ground, are you?’ she said. ‘Let me help.’

‘Mum, you can’t,’ said the mother. ‘You’re old and weak. You’ll hurt yourself.’

The father, the farmer, the children, the snake charmer – even the llama – also thought that Granny shouldn’t help.

‘I’m helping,’ said Granny, ‘and you can’t stop me.’

So the granny pulled on the nanny and the nanny pulled on the snake charmer and the snake charmer pulled on the sister and the sister pulled on the brother and the brother pulled on the llama and the llama pulled on the farmer and the farmer pulled on the father and the father pulled on the mother and the mother pulled on the turnip. Mother, Father, farmer, llama, Brother, Sister, snake charmer, Nanny and Granny pulled and pulled and… POP! The turnip came out of the ground!

‘My turnip! My beautiful turnip!’ the mother cried.

And they ate turnip soup that night for dinner. And the day after that. And the next day and the next day and the next day and the next day…






Once, there were three goats. The three goats were sisters, and each sister was bigger than the other. The youngest sister was the smallest, the middle child was normal-sized, and the eldest goat was the biggest.

One day, the three goats were happily eating grass in the field. They had eaten grass there for many years, but now there was not much grass left.

‘Oh no!’ said the youngest goat. ‘There is no grass left. What will we eat now?’

‘It’s because you ate all the grass!’ said the middle child. ‘You’re such a greedy little goat. You think because you’re the youngest that you can eat all the grass.’

‘Stop!’ said the eldest goat. ‘This has happened before, but you two are probably too young to remember. There is another field we can go to, where there will be lots more grass. Follow me.’

The eldest goat took her two sisters through the field to a big bridge. The bridge went over a river, and the water under the river flowed quickly.

‘What’s that?!’ said the youngest goat. ‘That’s not grass!’

‘Ha, silly sister!’ said the middle child. But she also didn’t know what it was.

‘It is a bridge,’ explained the eldest. ‘It will take us to the other field where all the grass is.’

‘But why can’t we just swim?’ said the youngest.

‘Don’t be silly! Can’t you see how fast that water is flowing? If we went into that water, we would drown.’

‘Very true,’ said the eldest goat, who thought the middle goat was much sillier than the youngest. ‘Now, the bridge is quite narrow, so we must walk across it one by one.’

‘I’ll go first!’ said the middle goat.

‘No, no,’ said the eldest. ‘Let the youngest go first. If the bridge is broken, then she won’t fall in. But we are bigger, and we could easily fall in the water.’

So the youngest goat was the first to cross the bridge. The bridge was not broken, and she did not fall in. She walked across the narrow bridge, and soon she could not see or hear her sisters. But before she could cross to the other side, there was a horrible noise.

‘WRAAAAGH!’

A troll jumped out in front of the goat.

‘Ah!’ cried the youngest goat. ‘You’re not grass!’

‘No, I’m a troll!’ said the troll.

‘Oh,’ said the goat. ‘I’m glad. I wouldn’t eat you if you were grass.’

‘Uh, aren’t you afraid of me?’ said the troll.

‘Not really,’ said the goat. ‘Why? Should I be afraid?’

‘Yes, yes you should!’ said the troll. ‘I’m a big, hungry troll, and do you know what trolls eat?’

‘Grass?’ said the youngest goat. ‘We eat grass, and it’s very nice, so I think –’

‘NO!’ said the troll. ‘I eat goats.’

‘Oh. But you’re not going to eat me, are you? I’m so young! I want to live a long life!’

‘Well, too bad!’ said the troll. ‘Because I’m going to eat you, and there’s nothing you can do to stop me.’

‘But really…’ said the goat. ‘You said you’re big and hungry, but I’m just a little goat. If you eat me, you’ll still be hungry. My sister will be coming soon, and she’s bigger than me, so you can eat her instead.’

‘And why don’t I just eat you and your sister?’ said the troll.

‘Well, that would be greedy! But also, if you try to eat me, I’ll make lots of noise and my sisters will know not to cross the bridge!’

‘Fine, fine,’ said the troll. ‘Hopefully, your sister is less annoying…’

‘Yay! Thank you, Mr. Troll!’

The youngest sister crossed to the other side.

Next, the middle goat crossed the narrow bridge. She worried that the bridge might break, but it didn’t. When the troll jumped out, she was quite surprised.

‘Oh! I thought the bridge was breaking, but it’s just a rabbit or something.’

‘A rabbit?’ said the troll. ‘I’m not a rabbit!’

‘Alright, alright. Maybe a cat? Look, we live in a small field. I don’t know what other animals look like!’

‘That doesn’t matter!’ said the troll. ‘Because I’m going to eat you!’

‘Oh!’ said the middle goat. ‘Please tell me you ate my younger sister? She’s so annoying.’

‘I did not!’ said the troll. ‘Because I am going to eat YOU! And I can see that you are bigger than your sister, and so I will not be hungry afterwards.’

‘Oh, you poor thing!’ said the goat. ‘You must have so little food. You think I will be enough food for you? You probably have been eating too little all your life. Listen, my older sister is coming after me, and she’s really fat. She’s the biggest goat I’ve ever seen! She would really make a better meal.’

‘And why can’t I eat you both?’ said the troll.

Right now, he was thinking that maybe he should start eating grass. Grass didn’t talk when you tried to eat it. Grass wasn’t annoying like these goats. And his stomach was so empty…

‘Well, first, that would be greedy. But also, my older sister is very fast. If you eat me, you’ll be tired, and my sister will be too fast for you. But if you wait for her, you’ll be able to catch her! Also, I ate some really bad grass earlier, so you really don’t want to eat me.’

‘Fine, fine,’ said the troll. ‘Go on.’

‘Thanks!’ said the middle goat. She crossed over the bridge.

Finally, the eldest goat crossed the narrow bridge. The bridge made some noises, but it did not break. When the troll jumped out, the eldest goat was not surprised.

‘I remember you!’ she said. ‘It’s been years, hasn’t it?’

‘I don’t know what you’re talking about!’ said the troll. ‘I’ve never met you.’

‘Oh, silly me. It was your mother I killed, wasn’t it? You were just a little baby then.’

‘What are you talking about?’ said the troll.

But it was too late for him. The eldest goat jumped and hit the troll with her head. The troll fell off the bridge and into the river.

‘Ahh!’ cried the troll.

‘Bye!’ said the eldest goat. ‘Oh, and if you have any babies, I’ll kill them, too! I’ll drown them one by one!’

The waters flowed quickly, and the troll drowned. But at least his stomach wasn’t empty. It was full of water!

‘Gluggghghh…’

The eldest goat crossed the bridge and found her sisters.

‘Oh,’ said the middle goat. ‘What did you tell the troll? Did you tell him that another troll was coming?’

‘Oh, don’t worry,’ said the eldest goat. ‘I was very nice to him.’

‘Really?’ said the youngest goat. ‘Is he still on the bridge?’

‘No, no,’ said the eldest. ‘We decided that he should leave. He lives somewhere much… wetter now. Now come on, we’ve got all this grass to eat! You won’t grow up to be big and strong like me if you don’t eat your grass.’

Now there were no trolls on the bridge, so the three goats could cross it easily. When there was no more grass in the field, the three goats crossed the bridge one by one and went to the other field. And so they happily ate grass for the rest of their lives.












Simon lay in bed. He was very excited. Tomorrow, he would start his new job. He was going to work at a company that sold cars. Simon couldn’t wait to meet his colleagues. He couldn’t wait to see his desk. He couldn’t wait to get paid.

But Simon wasn’t excited about the cars. Actually, Simon hated driving, but he didn’t say this to his boss. He knew that after six months at the company, they would give him a car, and he would take it. But he didn’t want to use the car. He already had a small blue car, and he only used it twice a year, to visit his grandparents. He didn’t need more than that.

On Monday morning, Simon woke up and tore off a page from his calendar. Today’s picture was a happy cat. It was going to be a good week.

Simon walked to work. He wanted to be healthy for his new job. But the office was far away from his house. It took an hour to walk there. When Simon arrived, he was sweating. That morning, he had put on lots of deodorant, but it wasn’t enough.

Simon met his colleagues and saw his new desk. He enjoyed the work, but because it was his first day, he still sweated a lot. All day, his colleagues sniffed and said, ‘What’s that smell? Is there a dog in here?’

Simon got home and said, ‘Tomorrow will be better.’

On Tuesday, Simon tore off another page from his calendar. Today’s picture was a cat playing with a dog.

Today, Simon took the train to work. He put on lots of deodorant and walked to the train station. The train was faster than walking, but there was only one train every hour. So Simon arrived to work forty minutes early. When he got there, the office was closed.

So Simon stood and waited. It was very cold outside. He didn’t have a scarf or gloves on, because he hadn’t wanted to sweat.

When his boss came thirty minutes later, he said, ‘Ah, good to see you came early! It’s good that you’re excited. But your face is blue! Are you alright?’

‘I’m f-f-fine,’ said Simon.

‘Don’t worry, I’ll put the heating on.’

They went inside, and Simon’s boss put the heating on. Soon, it was much warmer. Soon, Simon felt better. But when he came home that evening, he couldn’t take off his shirt. He had used too much deodorant, and now his shirt was stuck to him! He had to use a pair of scissors to cut the shirt off. And it was such a nice shirt!

‘Oh well,’ said Simon. ‘Tomorrow will be better.’

On Wednesday, Simon tore off another page from the calendar. In today’s picture, the dog was chasing the cat.

Today, Simon took the bus. He only put on a bit of deodorant. But there were lots of people at the bus stop. When the first bus came, they all ran onto it, and there wasn’t enough space for Simon. He waited for the next bus, and it was very full, but there was space for Simon. But still, he sweated a lot, and there was a woman on the bus who was screaming. Simon didn’t understand why she was screaming, but nobody said anything.

When he got to work, he was a bit late and had a headache. He told his boss there was a problem with the bus, and his boss said, ‘That’s alright, it happens to everyone. But it won’t happen again, will it?’ His boss sniffed. ‘Huh, there’s that smell again. Did the dog come back?’

In the evening, Simon took off his shirt. It wasn’t stuck to him, but it smelled very bad.

‘Tomorrow will be better,’ said Simon. ‘Tomorrow will be better.’

On Thursday, Simon tore off another page from his calendar. In today’s picture, the cat was chasing the dog.

Today, Simon called a taxi. He wanted to make sure that he got to work OK. He put on lots of deodorant, and then waited fifteen minutes for it to dry. Then he got into the taxi and told the taxi driver where to go.

But the taxi driver went a strange way. He went through lots of streets that Simon didn’t know. Simon saw fields with cows and sheep and thought, ‘This isn’t how you get to work.’

When he got there, the taxi driver said, ‘That’ll be fifty pounds, please.’

Fifty pounds! Simon couldn’t believe it. It was so expensive. Still, he took the money out of his wallet and paid the driver.

At work that day, Simon didn’t talk to anyone. He was not happy. At lunch, he couldn’t buy food, because he had spent all his money on the taxi. When Simon got home, his shirt wasn’t stuck to him, but he was still very angry. He pulled off his shirt too quickly and tore it.

‘Tomorrow will be…’ Simon couldn’t say it. So he just went to bed.

On Friday, Simon tore off another page from his calendar. In today’s picture, there was no chasing. There was just the cat, but the cat had a fat stomach and looked very happy.

Today, Simon decided to drive to work. He really didn’t want to drive, but it seemed the best way to go. He could control the temperature in the car, and he could drive a fast way to work. If he got there early, he could sit in the car and put the heating on.

But when Simon got into the car, the car wouldn’t start. He tried again, but still, the car wouldn’t start.

Simon wanted to scream. He had tried everything. He had tried to control how much deodorant he used, but that wasn’t enough. He had tried every different way of going to work, but that wasn’t enough. He had tried driving, which he hated, and that still wasn’t enough.

So Simon went inside and rang his boss.

‘Hello?’ said Simon’s boss.

‘AAAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!’ screamed Simon.

Then he put the phone down and went to bed.

Simon wasn’t going to work. He could control that.















Once, there was a town called Hamelin. Hamelin was a happy town. Everyone had enough to eat and drink, and children played happily in the streets. But then, one day, the rats came.

These were not normal rats. They were three times as big as normal rats, and their hairs were four times as long. Their teeth were like knives, and they were hungrier than a lion in the desert.

The rats took everything. They ate all the food that the people had worked to make. They drank the water and made it dirty. The children were too afraid to play outside, because the rats played in the street. People sent cats to kill the rats, but the cats were afraid of the rats, too.

The people did not know what to do. They thought they might have to leave Hamelin and go to another city. But then, one day, a piper came to town.

The piper’s clothes were beautiful. They were red and gold, and everyone looked at him as he walked into town. The rats stopped playing and looked at him. Who was this strange and beautiful man?

The piper went to speak to the mayor.

‘Mr Mayor,’ he said. ‘I can help you with your rat problem. All animals love music, and I can play the pipe ten times better than any other man. I will use my music to get rid of the rats.’

Normally, the mayor would say, ‘Get out!’ because he couldn’t believe that music could get rid of rats. But these were not normal rats.

‘How do I know you can really do that?’ he said.

The piper picked up his pipe and played some music. A bird flew in through the window and sat on his shoulder.

‘Well, well,’ said the mayor. ‘You do play very well. Of course, we will pay you after the rats are gone. How much do you ask for?’

‘Oh, not much! A thousand pounds,’ said the piper.

The mayor couldn’t believe it. A thousand pounds! That was as much money as he made in a year.

‘Well, well, that is a lot of money, but you’re sure you will get rid of all the rats, aren’t you?’

‘I will,’ said the piper.

‘You will get rid of ALL of the rats. Every last one. And then we will pay you a thousand pounds, yes?’

‘That sounds good,’ said the piper.

‘Just to be clear, you will get rid of ONE HUNDRED PERCENT of the rats, yes?’

‘Can I start now?’ said the piper.

‘Alright then. You can start whenever you’re ready.’

‘Thank you.’

So the piper went into the street and played his pipe. Immediately, all the rats stopped eating and playing and listened to him. They ran to the piper. Soon, there was a big circle of rats around him. The piper changed his music, and the rats moved into a line. All the people watched from their windows.

The piper played his pipe and walked through town, leading the rats behind him. As he walked, more and more rats came. The line was very long, and it was hard to see the end of it.

The people said, ‘Where is he leading them?’ They thought he might lead them out of town, but then they would just come back.

But no. The piper led them into the river. Of course, the river wasn’t very deep, and the piper was tall, so he could walk in it and still play his pipe. But the rats were not so tall. The piper led them into the river, and they couldn’t swim, and so they drowned. One by one, the rats followed him into the river and drowned. The people watched and cheered.

The mayor watched, but he did not cheer. Every last rat drowned. One hundred percent of them.

Afterwards, the mayor sent his men into town and asked them to find more rats. He was sure that one or two rats had not heard the piper. But they couldn’t find any rats. The piper had done what he said: he had got rid of every last one.

The people gave the piper food and drink, and they sang songs and played music all night. The next day, the piper went to the mayor and asked for his money.

‘Ah,’ said the mayor. ‘You see, there is a problem. I asked you to get rid of every last rat. One hundred percent of them. But you didn’t. There was one you did not find.’

The mayor opened a drawer and took out a rat. In the night, he had sent one of his men to another city and told him to bring back a rat. Of course, this rat was much smaller than the rats of Hamelin. It did not have long hair or teeth like knives.

‘That rat came from somewhere else,’ said the piper. ‘I know I drowned all the rats. But if you like, you can pay me nine hundred pounds instead of a thousand.’ He laughed. ‘Just think! That rat cost me a hundred pounds.’

The mayor cleared his throat. ‘I am sorry, but I don’t think you understand business. You told me that you would get rid of every last rat, and you did not. So I cannot pay you any money. Sorry, that’s just how business works.’

For a moment, the piper said nothing. The mayor was afraid. Could this man hurt him?

But no. He was only a piper. And the mayor wasn’t a rat!

‘Are you sure you want to do this?’ said the piper.

‘I will pay you a hundred pounds,’ said the mayor quickly, ‘and I will give you a full bag of food for your journey, and–’

‘Don’t worry,’ said the piper. ‘I won’t need it where I’m going.’

And the piper walked outside. For a moment, the mayor felt better. He had got rid of the rats, and he didn’t have to pay the piper any money!

But then, the piper started to play. He stood in the streets of Hamelin and played a very different kind of music.

This time, it was the children who came. They stopped playing and all ran to the piper. The mayor thought this was nice, but then the children moved into a line. The piper played his pipe and led the children through town.

Every child followed him. Every last one.

The piper walked out of town and the children followed. The mayor watched and could not believe it. The children’s parents were all at work, or sleeping after the party, so they did not know what was happening.

‘Stop, stop!’ cried the mayor.

He ran into the street, but the children did not stop. He pulled at them and told them to go home, but the children did not listen. They could only follow the piper. The mayor tried to follow, but he was old and afraid. So he went back into his house and shut all the doors. Then, he hid near a window and watched.

The piper led the children up into the hills. He led them through the forest. Finally, he led them to the mountain.

The mayor thought that he must stop here, because the mountain was tall and hard to climb. But as the piper played, the mountain opened up. It opened like a door, and the piper walked inside, and of course, the children followed him.

One by one, the children of Hamelin disappeared with the piper into the mountain.

Later, the parents came home and saw that their children were gone. But three children came back to town. One of the children had a limp, one was blind and the other was deaf.

‘What happened?’ asked the parents.

‘The piper played his music,’ said the boy with the limp, ‘and all the children went to him. I tried to follow, but I couldn’t. When they went up the hills, I could not climb because of my limp.’

‘I followed them to the forest,’ said the blind girl, ‘but then I got lost. I could not find the way because I am blind.’

‘I did not hear the music,’ said the deaf girl. Actually, she said it in sign language, and her mother spoke her words. ‘All the children danced and followed the piper, and I thought that was strange. So I followed them to see where they were going. When they came to the mountain, it opened up and they all went inside. They just disappeared. I tried to see what was inside, but it was dark. I’m glad that I’m deaf, because after the last child went inside, the mountain closed again.’

‘But why would he do that?’ said the parents. ‘He was so friendly last night!’

‘I heard him talking to the mayor,’ said the blind girl. ‘The mayor didn’t want to pay him.’

That was all the parents needed to hear. The music was in their ears, and it was a very different kind of music. They went to the mayor’s house, and they did not ask for him to open the door. He was a rat, and you don’t talk sweetly to rats.

And so, the parents of Hamelin cried for their lost children, and no music was played in the town for hundreds of years. There had once been a mayor in the town, too, but one day he disappeared, and everyone quickly forgot about him.








Once, there was a king who worried a lot about how he looked. Most kings worried about the country’s money, but this king only thought about clothes. He spent all the country’s money on clothes, and his wardrobe was as big as a country. He only went to the theatre when he had a new outfit and wanted people to see it. The king was not often in council, but he was often in his wardrobe.

So the people in the country wore old dirty clothes and the king’s council did all his work for him. Actually, this was quite good. The council understood the job better than the king. Things went well, until one dark day…

A pair of brothers came to the castle, saying that they were famous weavers, but they were lying. But when the king heard that there were weavers in the castle, he wanted to see them.

‘My dear king,’ said the first brother. ‘We have travelled through your country, and we have heard lots of stories about your amazing outfits.’

‘You have?’ said the king. He was happy that everyone knew about his outfits. ‘How wonderful.’

‘We have an idea,’ said the second brother. ‘We want to weave you a beautiful outfit, and then the whole world will know about you.’

‘The whole world!’ said the king. ‘Isn’t that a wonderful idea?’

He looked at his council, but they did not look so happy.

‘If the other kings and queens hear that I have such an outfit, they will think we are rich, and they will not make war with us.’

‘And it won’t just be beautiful!’ said the first brother. ‘The clothes will be magic. Only people who are clever and good at their job will be able to see them.’

The king thought this was brilliant. His outfit would make him famous, and he would also know if his council were good at their jobs, and who was clever.

‘We must start immediately!’ said the king. ‘What do you need to weave this wonderful outfit?’

So the lying brothers asked for two bags of gold and a room to work in. There, they put two big machines, and pretended to start working. They put the gold in their own bags, and they did not put anything in the machines. They moved their hands in the air and worked the machines. It made lots of noise, but of course, the machines were empty. They were only pretending.

A few days later, the king was looking at clothes in his wardrobe, and then he had an idea. He could send his council to go and see how the weavers’ work was going. That way, he would know if his council were good at their jobs.

He sent the oldest man in the council to go and talk to the weavers. The councilman thought he would easily see the outfit, but when he walked in, he saw two empty machines, and the weavers working.

‘My God!’ he thought. ‘Does this mean I am stupid? Then I must not be good at my job.’

‘Councilman!’ said the brothers, stopping their work. ‘Thank you for coming to see our work. Come closer, so you can see the clothes better.’

The councilman pretended to look at the outfit.

‘Tell us, do you like how it looks? And what do you think of the colours?’

They spoke for a long time about the clothes, used many long words, and asked what the councilman thought. He said, ‘Yes, yes,’ and told them that the outfit was beautiful. He did not want them to think he was lying, so he asked for the names of the colours, so that he could tell the king.

‘Oh, and before you go!’ said the brothers. ‘Could we have more gold? We have used most of it already.’

So the councilman gave the message to the king, and the king gave more gold to the lying brothers, which they put in their own bags.

The king was happy with the oldest councilman, so a few days later, he sent the youngest councilman. This man also thought he would be able to see the clothes, and when he walked in and saw the empty machines, he began to worry.

‘If I tell the king I cannot see the clothes, he will kill me!’ he thought.

So he looked at the machines for a long time, and spoke loudly about how beautiful the clothes were, and how he wanted to tell the whole city about it. The weavers asked him lots of questions, and said that they wanted to make sure it was perfect, and then asked the councilman for more gold.

The councilman told the news about the magic clothes to the city, and everyone started talking about it. They all wanted to see the outfit, so that they could know who was stupid or bad at their job.

Finally, the king decided that he could wait to send his councilmen to the weavers, because he wanted to see the clothes himself. He went to their room with his council, and of course they only saw the empty machines, but nobody said anything in front of the king.

The king was very surprised that he could not see the clothes.

‘Does this mean that I am a bad king?’ he thought. ‘But how can that be? I have been a good king all my life! But maybe… My council has always done most of the work. And isn’t that the job of a king? The people look at how wonderfully perfect I am, and then the king chooses a strong council who does all the work. I must not speak of this, or people will think I am a bad king.’

So the king said that the clothes looked wonderful, and that he would give the weavers as much gold as they needed. The council laughed and talked about the beautiful colours. If you listened to the council, you would think the clothes were black, white, red, green, yellow, orange, blue, purple and gold!

‘Yes, yes, you have done an excellent job,’ said the king. ‘So I think we must hold a parade! There, we will show everyone the new outfit, and afterwards you will be knighted.’

The lying brothers’ mouths fell open.

‘We will be knighted? How amazing! Our king is too kind.’

The night before the parade, the weavers did not sleep. They worked all night on their machines. Then they took the clothes out, cut them with scissors and so on. Of course, they were really just pretending, cutting the air with scissors.

In the morning, the lying brothers came to the king and showed him each piece of the outfit.

‘Here are your new trousers, my king!’ they said, and they helped the king put on his trousers.

‘Here is your new scarf, my king!’ they said, and they helped the king put on his scarf.

‘Here is your new shirt, my king!’ they said, and they helped the king put on his shirt.

‘The clothes are so light that you will not feel them,’ they explained.

‘They are as light as air!’ the king said.

The weavers took the king to the mirror. He stood there completely naked, but the weavers pretended to look at the outfit, talking about how good he looked.

The parade began, and all the people of the city came to see the king’s new clothes. Of course, there was really nothing to see, but nobody wanted to say anything, because then people would think they were stupid. So everyone talked about how wonderful the king looked.

Finally, a young girl saw the king, and she could not understand what everyone was talking about.

‘But he’s naked!’ she said. ‘The king is naked!’

The words quickly went through the crowd. Everyone started to talk about the king’s new clothes – well, everyone started to talk about how the king didn’t have any clothes.

Soon, people started to laugh. ‘The king is naked!’

‘It does not matter,’ the king thought. ‘The people of the city are stupid. I knew that already. And I know that I look excellent.’

When the parade was finished, the king went back to the castle to find the weavers, so he could knight them. But the two lying brothers were gone. Nobody could find them.

‘Hello? Where have those two gone?’

They had left when the parade started, taking all their gold with them.

And so the king stood, naked, in his castle. He felt quite stupid.




TEXT TAKEN FROM https://easystoriesinenglish.com/